---
title: "Topic types and their requirements"
ms.date: 08/21/2019
ms.service: 
ms.topic: "conceptual"
author: "ReneeW-CPub"
ms.author: "renwe"
---
# Topic types and their requirements
Here are general requirements for each type of topic we have in the release plans. 

## Overview (index.md) topics

<!--editor: This could use more help. -->

It's important to write a strong overview that outlines all the investments for the product area you are covering, and to group those investments by themes. 

**Overview example**: 

[Overview of Dynamics 365 for Marketing 2019 release wave 2](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dynamics365-release-plan/2019wave2/dynamics365-marketing/)

## Feature topics

- In the business value section of the tool, describe the value of the feature to end users.

- In the feature details section of the tool, be descriptive. Update this section if you get more info. It's the No. 1 piece of feedback we get from customers about the release plans: They want more details about your features. 

- Use Markdown format.

- Include screenshots or an image to help users see the benefits, if a visual element can add interest.

- In the summary section of the tool, give a short description that differs from the feature title, keeping SEO in mind. 

- Once a feature ships, make sure to add links to the shipped docs that went with it so users can get as much info as possible.

<!-- editor note: Is the following still true? -->

- If this is a new feature, it should have the new feature label.

- Ensure that the body of the topic (everything after the H1) meets the same guidelines as other topics: no PII, minimum resolution for screen shots is 1920, etc.

For **April '19** or earlier content: If you change a feature title, you also must make the same change in these places:
- The title tag of the topic for that feature.

- The H1 of the same topic.

- The link from toc.md to the feature topic.

- The link from planned-features.md to the feature topic.

- The link (if any) from change-history.md to the feature topic.

> [!NOTE]
> We no longer add border tags to images in the release plans. This is because the tags result in a non-caption style and strip the alt-text in the PDF. 

**Feature example**: 

[Timeline wall filter improvements](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform-release-plan/2019wave2/microsoft-powerapps/timeline-wall-filter-improvements)


## What's new and planned (planned-features.md) topics 

For content developed in **wave 2** or later, this page is generated by the Release Planner Tool. It includes the following:

Feature column:
- Lists the features.

- Links to the feature topics.

- Shows who the feature is enabled for. 

- Lists public preview month and year. 

- Lists general availability month and year (or month-date-year if released).

- Lists early access availability.

Release dates:
- Before a feature ships, we use the month and year the feature is planned to ship. Example: April 2019

- Once the feature has shipped, we use the month, day, and year. Example: April 12, 2019

- For features that are not scheduled, we use "Undetermined."

- For features that are not scheduled and might ship after the current release plan timeframe, we use "Undetermined (may release after (month))". For example: Undetermined (may release after March 2019).

> [!NOTE]
> We don't include private preview features in the release plans. 

Some **April '19** release notes include a Cloud/Online or on-premises column:
- Use either "Cloud" or "Online" in the column heading, depending on which word your product uses. 
  - Cloud or on-premises
  - Online or on-premises
  
- Values for the cells can be "Cloud," "Online", "On-premises", or "Both". Only use "Both" if online and on-premises are shipping at the same time.

**What's new and planned example**: 

[What's new and planned for Dynamics 365 for Finance and Operations](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dynamics365-release-plan/2019wave2/dynamics365-finance-operations/planned-features)

## Change history (change-history.md) topic

For content developed in **wave 2** or later, this page is generated by the Release Planner Tool. 

If you are making changes to content in the **April '19** release notes, you will also need to update the April '19 change history. Follow these general guidelines:

- See the comments section at the top of the change-history.md file for a template for each type of table you might need. Use those templates so we are consistent within the topic. (Check first to see if the table you need is already in place.)

- Ensure that an entry is created in change-history.md, and follow the precedents in existing entries. (For example, link to the feature topic, and don’t include the year when you specify a date.)

- Don’t create multiple entries for the same feature. For example, a feature may slip more than once, slip before being removed, etc. In those cases, just update the existing entry to the new date or move the entry to the table for removed features, etc., as appropriate.

- Do not put private preview features in the release plans.

Types of change tables:
- Features added

- Release date changed

- Feature description changed

- Feature section changed

- Features removed

Feature column:
- Enter the name of the feature

- Link the feature name to the feature topic

"Feature description changed":
- Enter a concise description of the nature of the change and use the same wording as in other Feature description changed tables.

"Date changed," "Date added," and "Date removed" columns:
- Enter the month and day you made the change in the release plans. Example: September 24  

**Change history example**:

[Power Platform change history](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform-release-plan/2019wave2/change-history)

## Topic metadata

For content developed in **wave 2 or later**, the tool creates metadata based on your entries in the tool's fields. 

If you are working on content in the **April '19** release notes, you might need to add to or update the topic metadata. Follow these guidelines:

- author - PM’s GitHub user name

- ms.author - PM alias

- ms.reviewer – CP owner alias

- ms.manager – not needed. Don’t use.

- description – Write a good description loaded with keywords. Minimum 75, max 300 characters including spaces. Per APEX, displays on the search page inline with the article date stamp. If your intro paragraph describes your article's intent, you can use it here edited for length.

- title (page title) - This is the page title that will appear in search results and if a user hovers their mouse over the browser tab. This should be similar to the H1 heading in the topic, but not the same per SEO instructions. Goal is for page titles to be 59 char or less, including spaces. 

- ms.type – For almost all topics, use the topic type “article”. Exceptions: overviews use “overview” and planned features use “summary”. 

- ms.date – 01/21/2019 (always use mm/dd/yyyy format)

- ms.service – business-applications

- ms.assetid: not needed for topics authored directly in GitHub.


